Download this document:
http://bit.ly/campaign-data-dc
Download slides:
http://mattstil.es/ire.pptx

WHO’S RUNNING
ABC News: Game Changers
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/OTUS/fullpage/2012-presidential-elections-fantasy-game-game-changer15177994
GOP endorsement game
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/special/politics/endorsements-tracker-game-2012/
CAMPAIGN FINANCE
2012 presidential ad spending
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/special/politics/track-presidential-campaign-ads-2012/
Dollars per vote (2010)
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/politics/dollars-per-vote/
ProPublica: PAC Track
http://projects.propublica.org/pactrack/#contributions=all
The Texas Tribune: Campaign Finance
http://www.texastribune.org/library/data/campaign-finance/search/?q=Bob+Perry
WHO WON
The Guardian: Live Results (despite the 3D)
http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/interactive/2012/jan/03/gop-nomination-2012-primary-results#state=CO
Chicago Tribune: Mayoral Election
http://media.apps.chicagotribune.com/election-maps/mayor-2011/index.html
Tea party
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/special/politics/tea-party-canvass/
Chicago Tribune: NH Primary
http://media.apps.chicagotribune.com/2012-elections/nh-primary.html
Live results 2010
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/special/politics/election-results-2010/
Results map 2010
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/special/politics/2010-race-maps/house/
== MORE ==

WHO’S RUNNING
ABC News: Game Changers
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/OTUS/fullpage/2012-presidential-elections-fantasy-game-game-changer15177994
The Texas Tribune: Perry Tracker
http://www.texastribune.org/library/data/perrytracker/
Primary tracker
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/special/politics/primary-tracker/
GOP endorsement game
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/special/politics/endorsements-tracker-game-2012/
The Texas Tribune: Election Brackets
http://www.texastribune.org/election-2012/
LA Times: Candidates on the Issues
http://www.latimes.com/news/nationworld/nation/politics/la-na-gop-candidateissues,0,433892.htmlstory
WaPo Debate Tool
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/politics/2012-presidential-debates/republican-primarydebate-january-26-2012/
CAMPAIGN FINANCE
2012 presidential ad spending
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/special/politics/track-presidential-campaign-ads-2012/
Dollars per vote (2010)
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/politics/dollars-per-vote/
Sunlight Foundation: Influence Explorer
http://influenceexplorer.com/
The New York Times: Super PACs
http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2012/01/31/us/politics/super-pac-donors.html?ref=politics
ProPublica: PAC Track
http://projects.propublica.org/pactrack/#contributions=all
The Texas Tribune: Campaign Finance
http://www.texastribune.org/library/data/campaign-finance/search/?q=Bob+Perry
The Daily Viz: Regional Trends
http://thedailyviz.com/post/11539284430/mapping-where-gop-candidates-raise-their-campaign
The New York Times: Campaign Data Dashboard
http://elections.nytimes.com/2012/campaign-finance?hp&ref=politics&ref=politics
Gregor Aisch: Radial Donation Chart (if you understand what this says, go for it!)
http://labs.vis4.net/parteispenden/
WHO WON

The New York Times: Primary Results Map
http://elections.nytimes.com/2012/primaries/results
The Guardian: Live Results (despite the 3D)
http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/interactive/2012/jan/03/gop-nomination-2012-primary-results#state=CO
Chicago Tribune: NH Primary
http://media.apps.chicagotribune.com/2012-elections/nh-primary.html
Chicago Tribune: Mayoral Election
http://media.apps.chicagotribune.com/election-maps/mayor-2011/index.html
WNYC/Patchwork Nation
http://www.wnyc.org/articles/its-free-country/2012/jan/03/patchwork-vote-iowa/
House Democratic losses
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/special/politics/election-2010/incumbent-democratanalysis/
Tea party
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/special/politics/tea-party-canvass/
Palin tracker
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/special/politics/palin_tracker/
Tea party endorsement results
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/special/politics/tea-party-endorsement-results/
Live results 2010
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/special/politics/election-results-2010/
Results map 2010
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/special/politics/2010-race-maps/house/

