Design for
Data Journalism
WHAT TO DO & WHAT NOT TO DO

ANNA FLAGG

LENA GROEGER

MOIZ SYED

Al Jazeera+

Propublica

Wikimedia Foundation

@annaflagg

@lenagroeger

@moizsyed

Why does design
matter to you?

1

Don’t design for
likes

2

Advertisers
manipulate,
journalists inform

3

When good design
goes bad: your
power as a designer

A lot of examples

1

Don’t design for
likes

1

Don’t design for
likes/Unnecessary
3D

1

DON’T DESIGN FOR LIKES

Unnecessary 3D

Source: Wired Magazine

1

DON’T DESIGN FOR LIKES

Unnecessary 3D

3D: Completely
uncalled for

Source: Wired Magazine

1

Don’t design for
likes/Breaking
rules of perception

1

DON’T DESIGN FOR LIKES

Breaking rules of perception

Source: Gallup

1

DON’T DESIGN FOR LIKES

Breaking rules of perception

Should have been a
bar chart

Source: Gallup

1

DON’T DESIGN FOR LIKES

Breaking rules of perception

Source: Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine

1

DON’T DESIGN FOR LIKES

Breaking rules of perception

Source: Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine

1

Don’t design for
likes/A good
example

1

DON’T DESIGN FOR LIKES

A good example

Source: The New York Times

Bar charts are
beautiful

1

Don’t design for
likes/Design
complexity reflects
data complexity

1

DON’T DESIGN FOR LIKES

Design complexity should reflect data complexity

Source: Twitter

1

DON’T DESIGN FOR LIKES

Design complexity should reflect data complexity

Why is this
happening

Source: Twitter

1

DON’T DESIGN FOR LIKES

A good example

Source: The New York Times

Flashy but cool

1

DON’T DESIGN FOR LIKES

A good example

Source: Propublica

Keep that data-ink
in check

1

Don’t design for
likes/Unnecessary
animation

1

DON’T DESIGN FOR LIKES

Unnecessary animation

Source: Ebay / Pitch Interactive

1

DON’T DESIGN FOR LIKES

Unnecessary animation

Way too much globe

Source: Ebay / Pitch Interactive

1

Don’t design for
likes/A good
example

1

DON’T DESIGN FOR LIKES

A good example

Source: NBC Nightly News

Now it’s time for
SHOULD HAVE BEEN
A BAR CHART

1

Don’t design for
likes/Unnecessary
maps

1

DON’T DESIGN FOR LIKES

Unnecessary maps

Source: USA Today

1

DON’T DESIGN FOR LIKES

Unnecessary maps

Source: NBC Nightly News

1

DON’T DESIGN FOR LIKES

Unnecessary maps

Source: NBC Nightly News

1

Don’t design for
likes/Two good
examples

1

DON’T DESIGN FOR LIKES

A good example

Source: Propublica

1

DON’T DESIGN FOR LIKES

A good example

Source: Propublica

1

DON’T DESIGN FOR LIKES

A good example

Source: Propublica

1

DON’T DESIGN FOR LIKES

A good example

Source: The Vigorous North

1

DON’T DESIGN FOR LIKES

A good example

Source: The Vigorous North

We love maps

1
Don’t design for likes/
Unnecessary 3d/Breaking
rules of perception/Design
complexity reflects data
complexity/Unnecessary
animation/Unnecessary
maps

1
Don’t design for likes/
Unnecessary 3d/Breaking
rules of perception/Design
complexity reflects data
complexity/Unnecessary
animation/Unnecessary
maps

1
Don’t design for likes/
Unnecessary 3d/Breaking
rules of perception/Design
complexity reflects data
complexity/Unnecessary
animation/Unnecessary
maps

1
Don’t design for likes/
Unnecessary 3d/Breaking
rules of perception/Design
complexity reflects data
complexity/Unnecessary
animation/Unnecessary
maps

1
Don’t design for likes/
Unnecessary 3d/Breaking
rules of perception/Design
complexity reflects data
complexity/Unnecessary
animation/Unnecessary
maps

1
Don’t design for likes/
Unnecessary 3d/Breaking
rules of perception/Design
complexity reflects data
complexity/Unnecessary
animation/Unnecessary
maps

2

Advertisers
manipulate,
journalists inform

2

Advertisers
manipulate,
journalists inform/
Emotional design

2

ADVERTISERS MANIPULATE, JOURNALISTS INFORM

Emotional design

Source: Los Angeles Times

2

ADVERTISERS MANIPULATE, JOURNALISTS INFORM

Emotional Design

Source: Periscopic

2

ADVERTISERS MANIPULATE, JOURNALISTS INFORM

Emotional Design

Art ≠ Journalism

Source: Periscopic

2

ADVERTISERS MANIPULATE, JOURNALISTS INFORM

Emotional design

Source: Reuters

2

Advertisers
manipulate,
journalists inform/
A good example

2

ADVERTISERS MANIPULATE, JOURNALISTS INFORM

A good example

Source: South China Morning Post

Outkast!

2

Advertisers
manipulate,
journalists inform/
Causation vs.
correlation

2

ADVERTISERS MANIPULATE, JOURNALISTS INFORM

Causation vs. correlation

Source: Washington Post OpEd

2

ADVERTISERS MANIPULATE, JOURNALISTS INFORM

Causation vs. correlation

Source: Washington Post OpEd

2
Advertisers manipulate,
journalists inform/
Emotional design/
Causation vs. correlation

2
Advertisers manipulate,
journalists inform/
Emotional design/
Causation vs. correlation

2
Advertisers manipulate,
journalists inform/
Emotional design/
Causation vs. correlation

3

When good design
goes bad: your
power as a designer

3

WHEN GOOD DESIGN GOES BAD: YOUR POWER AS A DESIGNER

Introduction

Source: The New York Times

3

WHEN GOOD DESIGN GOES BAD: YOUR POWER AS A DESIGNER

Using proximity to suggest false association

Source: The New York Times

3

WHEN GOOD DESIGN GOES BAD: YOUR POWER AS A DESIGNER

Hiding inconvenient data

Source: The New York Times

3

WHEN GOOD DESIGN GOES BAD: YOUR POWER AS A DESIGNER

Hiding inconvenient data

Source: The New York Times

3

WHEN GOOD DESIGN GOES BAD: YOUR POWER AS A DESIGNER

Hiding inconvenient data

Source: The New York Times

3

WHEN GOOD DESIGN GOES BAD: YOUR POWER AS A DESIGNER

Hiding inconvenient data

Source: The New York Times

3

WHEN GOOD DESIGN GOES BAD: YOUR POWER AS A DESIGNER

Hiding inconvenient data

Source: Twitter

3

WHEN GOOD DESIGN GOES BAD: YOUR POWER AS A DESIGNER

Hiding inconvenient data

Source: Twitter

3

WHEN GOOD DESIGN GOES BAD: YOUR POWER AS A DESIGNER

Manipulating data to back up your narrative

Source: The New York Times

3

WHEN GOOD DESIGN GOES BAD: YOUR POWER AS A DESIGNER

Manipulating data to back up your narrative

Source: The New York Times

3
When good design goes
bad/Using proximity to
suggest false association/
Hiding inconvenient data/
Manipulating data to back
up your narrative

3
When good design goes
bad/Using proximity to
suggest false association/
Hiding inconvenient data/
Manipulating data to back
up your narrative

3
When good design goes
bad/Using proximity to
suggest false association/
Hiding inconvenient data/
Manipulating data to back
up your narrative

3
When good design goes
bad/Using proximity to
suggest false association/
Hiding inconvenient data/
Manipulating data to back
up your narrative

Thank you
ANNA FLAGG

LENA GROEGER

MOIZ SYED

Al Jazeera+

Propublica

Wikimedia Foundation

@annaflagg

@lenagroeger

@moizsyed

